README.md, before:

# 🔥 Storage facade sessionStorage

An simple way to store data in sessionStorage.
Supports caching, iteration and default values.
Written in TypeScript.
Uses the [storage-facade](https://www.npmjs.com/package/storage-facade)
library which is provides a single storage API that abstracts over
the actual storage implementation.

## Installation

```sh
npm install storage-facade@4 storage-facade-sessionstorage@3
```

# Data structure

The following code

```TypeScript
import { createStorage } from 'storage-facade';
import { SessionStorageInterface } from 'storage-facade-sessionstorage';

const storage1 = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  name: 'storageOne', // Storage name
  useCache: true,
});

const storage2 = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  name: 'storageTwo', // Storage name
  useCache: true,
});

try {
  storage1.pen = { data: [40, 42] };
  storage1.pineApple = 10;

  storage2.apple = [1, 2, 3];
  storage2.pen = 'Uh!';
} catch (e) {
  console.error((e as Error).message);
  // If you are not using TypeScript replace this line with
  // console.error(e.message);
}
```

will create such keys in sessionStorage:

![sessionStorage](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vglinka/storage-facade-sessionstorage/main/assets/sessionstorage.png)

As you can see, each storage is separated from the other by a prefix,
and each value is wrapped in an object `{ value: ... }`,
allowing `null` values to be stored. For each storage, there is a variable
that stores a list of keys and their order. Thus, one of the storages
can be cleared without affecting the other storage, or other keys from other
libraries also stored in sessionStorage.

# Usage

## Storage methods

- `.clear()` - removes all key-value pairs from the storage
- `.entries()` - returns an array of key-value pairs
- `.deleteStorage()` - delete storage, the array of keys will also be removed
- `.size()` - returns the number of key-value pairs
- `.key(index: number)` - returns the name of the key by its index

The `key` and `size` methods can be used to create custom iterators.

## '...Default' methods

The default values are used if the value in the storage is `undefined`.
Default values are not stored in the storage, but in the instance.

- `.addDefault(obj)` - adds keys and values from the passed object to the list of default values
- `.setDefault(obj)` - replaces the list of default values with the given object
- `.getDefault()` - returns an object containing default values
- `.clearDefault()` - replaces a list of default values with an empty object

## Examples

### Read/Write/Delete

```TypeScript
import { createStorage } from 'storage-facade';
import { SessionStorageInterface } from 'storage-facade-sessionstorage';

const storage = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  // If you are using a cache, do not create more than one instance
  // with the same `name` property at the same time
  useCache: true, // false by default
  name: 'settings', // Storage name, optional, default: 'storage'
});

// If an initialization error occurs,
// it will be thrown on the first attempt to read/write
try {
  // Write value
  storage.value = { data: [40, 42] };

  // Read value
  console.log(storage.value); // { data: [40, 42] }

  // When writing, accesses to first-level keys are intercepted only,
  // so if you need to make changes inside the object,
  // you need to make changes and then assign it to the first level key.
  // Get object
  const updatedValue = storage.value as Record<string, unknown>;
  // Make changes
  updatedValue.data = [10, 45];
  // Update storage
  storage.value = updatedValue; // Ok

  // Read value
  console.log((storage.value as Record<string, unknown>).data); // [10, 45]

  // OR
  const value = storage.value as Record<string, unknown>;
  console.log(value.data); // [10, 45]

  // Delete value
  delete storage.value;
  console.log(storage.value); // undefined

  storage.value = 30;
  console.log(storage.value); // 30

  // Clear storage
  storage.clear();
  console.log(storage.value); // undefined

  // Delete storage
  // The array of keys will also be removed
  storage.deleteStorage();
  // An error will be thrown when trying to access
  // console.log(storage.value); // Error: 'This Storage was deleted!'
} catch (e) {
  console.error((e as Error).message);
}
```

### Iteration `.entries()`

```TypeScript
import { createStorage } from 'storage-facade';
import { SessionStorageInterface } from 'storage-facade-sessionstorage';

const storage = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  useCache: true,
});

try {
  storage.value = 4;
  storage.other = 5;

  const array = storage
    .entries()
    .map(([key, value]) => {
      // ... add code here ...
      return [key, value];
    });

  console.log(array);
  /*
    [
      ['value', 4],
      ['other', 5],
    ]
  */
} catch (e) {
  console.error((e as Error).message);
}
```

### '...Default' methods

```TypeScript
import { createStorage } from 'storage-facade';
import { SessionStorageInterface } from 'storage-facade-sessionstorage';

const storage = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  useCache: true,
});

try {
  console.log(storage.value) // undefined

  storage.addDefault({ value: 9, other: 3 });
  storage.addDefault({ value: 1, value2: 2 });

  // Since `storage.value = undefined` the default value is used
  console.log(storage.value);  // 1

  console.log(storage.value2); // 2
  console.log(storage.other);  // 3

  storage.value = 42;
  // When we set a value other than `undefined`,
  // the default value is no longer used
  console.log(storage.value); // 42

  storage.value = undefined;
  console.log(storage.value); // 1

  storage.value = null;
  console.log(storage.value); // null

  delete storage.value;
  console.log(storage.value); // 1

  // getDefault
  console.log(storage.getDefault()); // { value: 1, value2: 2, other: 3 }

  // Replace 'default'
  storage.setDefault({ value: 30 });

  console.log(storage.value); // 30
  console.log(storage.value2); // undefined

  // clearDefault
  storage.clearDefault();

  console.log(storage.value); // undefined
  console.log(storage.value2); // undefined
} catch (e) {
  console.error((e as Error).message);
}
```

# Limitations

## Use only first level keys when writing

When writing, accesses to first-level keys (like `storage.a =`,
but not `storage.a[0] =` or `storage.a.b =`) are intercepted only,
so if you need to make changes inside the object, you need to make changes
and then assign it to the first level key.

Assigning keys of the second or more levels will not give any effect.

```TypeScript
  // Read
  console.log((storage.value as Record<string, unknown>).data); // Ok

  // Write
  // Don't do that
  storage.value.data = 42; // no effect
```

Instead, use the following approach:

```TypeScript
  // Read
  console.log((storage.value as Record<string, unknown>).data); // Ok

  // Write
  // Get object
  const updatedValue = storage.value as Record<string, unknown>;
  // Make changes
  updatedValue.data = 42;
  // Update storage
  storage.value = updatedValue; // Ок
```

## If you are using caching

1. Don't create more than one instance with the same `name` property at the same time.
2. Values should be of any [structured-cloneable type (MDN)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm#supported_types).

## Don't use banned key names

There is a list of key names that cannot be used because they are the same
as built-in method names: [`clear`, `deleteStorage`, `size`, `key`,
`getEntries`, `entries`, `addDefault`, `setDefault`, `getDefault`, `clearDefault`].

Use the `keyIsNotBanned` function to check the key if needed.

```TypeScript
import { createStorage, keyIsNotBanned } from 'storage-facade';
import { SessionStorageInterface } from 'storage-facade-sessionstorage';

const storage = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  useCache: true,
});

try {
  const myNewKey = 'newKey';
  if (keyIsNotBanned(myNewKey)) {
    storage[myNewKey] = 42;
  }
} catch (e) {
  console.error((e as Error).message);
}
```

## Keys are `string`

Only values of type `string` can be used as keys.

## Values for `...Default` methods

Values for [`addDefault`, `setDefault`] methods
should be of any [structured-cloneable type (MDN)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm#supported_types).

Commit message:

Value no longer wraps around

README.md, after:

# 🔥 Storage facade sessionStorage: SessionStorageInterface

An simple way to store data in sessionStorage.
Supports caching, iteration and default values.
Written in TypeScript.
Uses the [storage-facade](https://www.npmjs.com/package/storage-facade)
library which is provides a single storage API that abstracts over
the actual storage implementation.

## Installation

```sh
npm install storage-facade@4 storage-facade-sessionstorage@4
```

# Data structure

The following code

```TypeScript
import { createStorage } from 'storage-facade';
import { SessionStorageInterface } from 'storage-facade-sessionstorage';

const storage1 = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  name: 'storageOne', // Storage name
  useCache: true,
});

const storage2 = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  name: 'storageTwo', // Storage name
  useCache: true,
});

try {
  storage1.pen = { data: [40, 42] };
  storage1.pineApple = 10;

  storage2.apple = [1, 2, 3];
  storage2.pen = 'Uh!';
} catch (e) {
  console.error((e as Error).message);
  // If you are not using TypeScript replace this line with
  // console.error(e.message);
}
```

will create such keys in sessionStorage:

![sessionStorage](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vglinka/storage-facade-sessionstorage/main/assets/sessionstorage.png)

As you can see, each storage is separated from the other by a prefix.
For each storage, there is a variable that stores a list of keys and their order.
Thus, one of the storages can be cleared without affecting the other storage,
or other keys from other libraries also stored in sessionStorage.

If you don't want prefixes and extra variables with key arrays then use library
[storage-facade-sessionstoragethin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/storage-facade-sessionstoragethin)
instead.

# Usage

## Storage methods

- `.clear()` - removes all key-value pairs from the storage
- `.entries()` - returns an array of key-value pairs
- `.deleteStorage()` - delete storage, the array of keys will also be removed
- `.size()` - returns the number of key-value pairs
- `.key(index: number)` - returns the name of the key by its index

The `key` and `size` methods can be used to create custom iterators.

## '...Default' methods

The default values are used if the value in the storage is `undefined`.
Default values are not stored in the storage, but in the instance.

- `.addDefault(obj)` - adds keys and values from the passed object to the list of default values
- `.setDefault(obj)` - replaces the list of default values with the given object
- `.getDefault()` - returns an object containing default values
- `.clearDefault()` - replaces a list of default values with an empty object

## Examples

### Read/Write/Delete

```TypeScript
import { createStorage } from 'storage-facade';
import { SessionStorageInterface } from 'storage-facade-sessionstorage';

const storage = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  // If you are using a cache, do not create more than one instance
  // with the same `name` property at the same time
  useCache: true, // false by default
  name: 'settings', // Storage name, optional, default: 'storage'
});

// If an initialization error occurs,
// it will be thrown on the first attempt to read/write
try {
  // Write value
  storage.value = { data: [40, 42] };

  // Read value
  console.log(storage.value); // { data: [40, 42] }

  // When writing, accesses to first-level keys are intercepted only,
  // so if you need to make changes inside the object,
  // you need to make changes and then assign it to the first level key.
  // Get object
  const updatedValue = storage.value as Record<string, unknown>;
  // Make changes
  updatedValue.data = [10, 45];
  // Update storage
  storage.value = updatedValue; // Ok

  // Read value
  console.log((storage.value as Record<string, unknown>).data); // [10, 45]

  // OR
  const value = storage.value as Record<string, unknown>;
  console.log(value.data); // [10, 45]

  // Delete value
  delete storage.value;
  console.log(storage.value); // undefined

  storage.value = 30;
  console.log(storage.value); // 30

  // Clear storage
  storage.clear();
  console.log(storage.value); // undefined

  // Delete storage
  // The array of keys will also be removed
  storage.deleteStorage();
  // An error will be thrown when trying to access
  // console.log(storage.value); // Error: 'This Storage was deleted!'
} catch (e) {
  console.error((e as Error).message);
}
```

### Iteration `.entries()`

```TypeScript
import { createStorage } from 'storage-facade';
import { SessionStorageInterface } from 'storage-facade-sessionstorage';

const storage = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  useCache: true,
});

try {
  storage.value = 4;
  storage.other = 5;

  const array = storage
    .entries()
    .map(([key, value]) => {
      // ... add code here ...
      return [key, value];
    });

  console.log(array);
  /*
    [
      ['value', 4],
      ['other', 5],
    ]
  */
} catch (e) {
  console.error((e as Error).message);
}
```

### '...Default' methods

```TypeScript
import { createStorage } from 'storage-facade';
import { SessionStorageInterface } from 'storage-facade-sessionstorage';

const storage = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  useCache: true,
});

try {
  console.log(storage.value) // undefined

  storage.addDefault({ value: 9, other: 3 });
  storage.addDefault({ value: 1, value2: 2 });

  // Since `storage.value = undefined` the default value is used
  console.log(storage.value);  // 1

  console.log(storage.value2); // 2
  console.log(storage.other);  // 3

  storage.value = 42;
  // When we set a value other than `undefined`,
  // the default value is no longer used
  console.log(storage.value); // 42

  storage.value = undefined;
  console.log(storage.value); // 1

  storage.value = null;
  console.log(storage.value); // null

  delete storage.value;
  console.log(storage.value); // 1

  // getDefault
  console.log(storage.getDefault()); // { value: 1, value2: 2, other: 3 }

  // Replace 'default'
  storage.setDefault({ value: 30 });

  console.log(storage.value); // 30
  console.log(storage.value2); // undefined

  // clearDefault
  storage.clearDefault();

  console.log(storage.value); // undefined
  console.log(storage.value2); // undefined
} catch (e) {
  console.error((e as Error).message);
}
```

# Limitations

## Use only first level keys when writing

When writing, accesses to first-level keys (like `storage.a =`,
but not `storage.a[0] =` or `storage.a.b =`) are intercepted only,
so if you need to make changes inside the object, you need to make changes
and then assign it to the first level key.

Assigning keys of the second or more levels will not give any effect.

```TypeScript
  // Read
  console.log((storage.value as Record<string, unknown>).data); // Ok

  // Write
  // Don't do that
  storage.value.data = 42; // no effect
```

Instead, use the following approach:

```TypeScript
  // Read
  console.log((storage.value as Record<string, unknown>).data); // Ok

  // Write
  // Get object
  const updatedValue = storage.value as Record<string, unknown>;
  // Make changes
  updatedValue.data = 42;
  // Update storage
  storage.value = updatedValue; // Ок
```

## If you are using caching

1. Don't create more than one instance with the same `name` property at the same time.
2. Values should be of any [structured-cloneable type (MDN)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm#supported_types).

## Don't use banned key names

There is a list of key names that cannot be used because they are the same
as built-in method names: [`clear`, `deleteStorage`, `size`, `key`,
`getEntries`, `entries`, `addDefault`, `setDefault`, `getDefault`, `clearDefault`].

Use the `keyIsNotBanned` function to check the key if needed.

```TypeScript
import { createStorage, keyIsNotBanned } from 'storage-facade';
import { SessionStorageInterface } from 'storage-facade-sessionstorage';

const storage = createStorage({
  use: new SessionStorageInterface(),
  useCache: true,
});

try {
  const myNewKey = 'newKey';
  if (keyIsNotBanned(myNewKey)) {
    storage[myNewKey] = 42;
  }
} catch (e) {
  console.error((e as Error).message);
}
```

## Keys are `string`

Only values of type `string` can be used as keys.

## Values for `...Default` methods

Values for [`addDefault`, `setDefault`] methods
should be of any [structured-cloneable type (MDN)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm#supported_types).
